How many times have you wondered or even researched
into whether or not you've had past lives?
Paul Von Ward is taking the subject head on with
his newest book "The Soul Genome",
science looks at reincarnation.
As a former theologian and psychologist,
Paul found that the most essential issues surrounding
mankind were not being answered by these models.
He finally asked the big question.
How would we live our lives if we knew that we are
the ones who will inherit the Earth, as our own
grandchildren, great grandchildren and so forth?
(music)
I find it interesting that while many cultures
throughout history have held in regard, and have really,
it's woven into the framework of their understanding
of life, the notion of reincarnation.
The western world, which is causing the greatest
amount of damage at this point in time, on the planet
itself, is the part of the world that's least likely to
buy into this notion that would create a
sense of greater personal responsibility.
It's interesting conundrum we have here and
thank God you're doing the kind of work you're doing.
Let's start out with how you ended up with your education
and background in the area of looking for the scientific
case for reincarnation.
Well, I think my growth and development in this direction
is a response to the question you asked
because I, in my research for other books and so
and I've always taken sort of an academic, historical,
philosophical perspective, you know, to the subject
and waxed philosophically and wisely on these issues.
And I got started in this research on reincarnation for
the book in the same way.
I talked to the publisher about it and we were going
to look at the history of things, and belief systems,
and philosophy and all of that sort of thing.
And I started, and then I thought, well now wait a minute.
As I got halfway through the writing of the first draft,
I thought, I'm saying the same things
that other people have said.
It's been written in many languages.
It hasn't had an impact on the world that
we can see as constructive.
And I'm involved now in researching this book.
I'm meeting mystical groups.
I'm meeting psychical groups, therapists who are
talking about reincarnation from their perspective.
And it seems to have a little bit of impact on the
individual at a moment of discussion or recognition
of a possible past lifetime, but then they go about
their lives the same way.
So, my question is, if this is real, if reincatnation
is a real part of the cosmology of this universe,
it ought to be something more substantive.
It ought to be something that's more rooted in who
we really are and influences who we really are.
And if that's the case, we ought to be able to prove it
to other people.
Not that I just had a mystical experience and I know I'm
the reincarnation of Mr. X two centuries ago
or my spirit guide said to me that I'm the reincatnation
of so-and-so and I feel so good about it.
But I don't change what I'm doing.
So I said, let's try to look at this question, and I
switched the whole approach to the research for the book.
Let's look at cases that only have imperical evidence.
That is, there's information about the proposed link between
a present lifetime and the alleged previous lifetime.
And deal only with things that I can write about, I can take
pictures of, I can measure, that I show to other people in
my book or in presentations, that they too can then
go look at it and they can go test it.
And they can say Paul, you didn't
interpret that correctly or, Paul, you didn't measure
that physical resemblance very well.
Your technique is no good.
It's not valid.
Then we can have a dialogue and I can say,
Oh, wait a minute.
This is the way I approached the evidence.
This is what I've collected.
This is how I've interpreted it.
Would you take the same material and reinterpret
it from your point of view if you think I've done it
incorrectly and let's look at it as a scientific process
which has to be replicated by another person, has
to be observed and evaluated by independent person.
And to see how close their conclusions are to mine.
I thought, if we could get to that level of discussion about
reincarnation, it might make enough impact that it would
really change the behavior of the individuals involved.
It might really change the psychological state,
the world view of people.
So I said, let's test that out. Let's see.
So I was involved with a number of groups who are looking
at reincarnation, but looking at it from what I considered
to be a very narrow perspective.
They've either had a psychic input of information.
They've had a therapeutic dream or a past life regression
and it's given them a label.
And I am the reincarnation of the Joan of Arc.
They feel good about it.
I'm the reincarnation of a soldier who had his head
chopped off and I'm no longer afraid of being cut at my
throat because no I recognize that was a traumatic
experience from the past, but nothing else changes.
Because people would get a clue to a potential lifetime
in the past and accept it without any validation, without
any corroboration from other sources or from other material.
And I thought, maybe that's the reason it's not making a
difference because it is not robust enough.
It would seem then at that point, if someone
were to be given a glimpse of something that has some
truth in it, for example.
If it's revealed, even in those little snippets without any
further evaluation, wouldn't it still be incumbent upon
a person to maybe delve into it a little bit more and
understand why have I been shown this?
Or why has this been revealed?
What is the responsibility now in knowing this?
Well, people do talk about it in those terms.
Well, gee I have a responsibility to live a life that
St. Thomas would have lived, but, you see, that's
at a level of abstraction.
That doesn't change people at the fundamental
level of personality.
So anyone who's looked at developmental theory in
psychology, which has been my area of focus in psychology
is to try to understand how do we individuate and
differentiate into the unique individuals that we are.
Because simple explanations don't account for the complexity
of the humans that we have become.
So I felt that if change is really going to happen
at a level of interiority, if we want to use that term,
at the inner sense of self, then you've got to have a
psychological process of what I call,
realistic, validatible learning.
I remember working with Chris Argyris at Harvard
about 30 years ago, and his point was learning theory.
And he and I were going to work together in some thing
in some things in the state department later on
to try and improve professional change.
And professional change means changing
the kind of person you are.
His theory was you don't have that kind of fundamental
change, learning to be a new and different kind of person,
unless there is a profound realization that your basic
assumptions are wrong.
Then you've got to say, I recognize that my
assumptions have been wrong about subject X, Y, or Z.
I've got to learn what is a better explanation.
I've got to learn why I made a mistake.
So I've taken that mentality, which came out of a totally
different part of my life and career, and said we ought
to apply that to reincarnation research.
That makes sense.
Now, did I understand correctly, were you in the world of,
were you a minister at one time?
Well, I started out my early career in graduate school
I was studying clinical psychology.
I was an ordained minster.
I had a small church outside of Tallahassee, Florida
where I was at Florida State University.
And I was going to be a psychological counselor
from a religious orientation.
So it's interesting because neither one of these
would support a future research in reincarnation.
Absolutely not. (woman laughs)
So you had to look at what wasn't working,
which of your suppositions weren't working in showing
you the entire truth.
Well, first of all, the whole discipline of psychology
in the 1960s, '70s, '80s, '90s and up to the present,
has no plausible developmental theory to explain
the uniqueness and the differentiation of human
personalities as we experience it in our own lives and
as we observe in other people.
I really spent a lot of time, while I was doing other things
I mean, the ministering, counseling and in the Navy
and the diplomatic service and so on.
I was always involved in those professional roles with
sort of another eye up here, saying
why is the situation the way it is?
Why are people behaving the way they behave?
And so my work at Harvard in the mid '70s with
psychologists David McClelland and Christ Argyris,
that I mentioned earlier, was also driven by that urge
to understand.
But people respond in unique ways
that cannot be explained by their
family environment, by their early childhood culture.
They make decisions, they know who they are, they define
themselves at a very precocious level.
And I'm not talking about just prodigies who are doing
symphonies at age eight as Mozart did or becoming
mathematical geniuses as people have at age nine.
I'm talking about all of us.
We have those kinds of, what I call, precocity.
We are precocious.
We know things at early ages that we haven't learned,
no one has talked to us about, we haven't read about them,
we haven't been exposed to them,
but we have beliefs in them.
Research going on a Yale University right now,
people are looking at children who hold beliefs in the
multi-dimensionality of the universe, who hold beliefs
about the transcendent nature of consciousness at very
young ages and they resist adults telling
them that it's wrong.
Now, where does that strength of conviction come from?
Yes. That's a wonderful case in point.
The developmental theories that I studied in psychology
did not explain it.
The theologies of the western religions did not explain it
because there you're supposed to be the servant of a God's
blueprint for your individual life and you have only one
choice to make which is to accept the path to salvation
that your particular church puts forth.
There's no room in that theology for individual
self-differentiation, for free will, for self-control and
direction, self-actualization as Carl Rogers would call it.
No theories were explaining that.
So when I began to, as I started out, in answer to your
first question, doing this research on this book,
I picked up a lot of the individually researched and best
cases where people had documented very well the
full picture, the full measure of a past life, and described
their own present life in terms of cognitive ways of
thought, analysis, thinking, emotional patterns and styles
of behavior, inner personal ways of dealing with the
world and universe and other people.
In other words, they had talked about all of this data
not in my terms as a psychologist looking at it and putting
these labels on it, but in terms of the raw data.
The point of intuition that I mentioned to in some of our
earlier, private conversations, the book, although it's a
very scientific approach to testing this data, I think it's
like all innovations in technology and in scientific
concepts and research, the first moment is sort of
an ah-ha moment of intuition.
When I looked at all of that raw data in these dozens
of cases, and I saw that each one of them was in its own way
painting a picture that was a picture of a whole being,
not just some ethereal concept, not just a name,
not just a historical reputation, but a robust person.
So I said, wow.
If this is what reincarnation does, if reincarnation
involves the totality of a being, not that it is an
identical thing, but that if the legacy of past lives,
that gets somehow transmitted into our current lifetime,
if it has that kind of influence on all aspects of
who we are, then it is a robust natural process that
affects all humans, it's a part of our legacy.
Then, I had to admit to myself that it wasn't a new idea
to me, but Jean-Baptiste Lamarck, before Darwin,
had the notion that in the process of evolution,
more than just these physical characteristics that
Darwin focused on were involved.
Well, Darwin won the publicity battle.
Lamarck got cast aside.
But in effect, what I'm reviving here is not a new idea
but it is a more extensive elaboration, a more structurally
defined concept than Lamarck was playing with.
So I said, all right, if this is what's involved in
reincarnation, the totality of our being physically,
cognitively, emotionally, inner personally, in terms
of our creative directions and so on.
I got all excited about it, as I express it here.
I said, let's try to test that hypothesis.
Because if it's real, we ought to be able to test it.
So, I took all these cases and started, as I mentioned
in one of the presentation that, Regina, you and I
had participated in.
I used, I'm an old fashioned guy, you know, I'm from
the '50s and '60s and technology is-
I'm a troglodyte in modern technology.
But I thought in terms of the old overhead projector
and the way we'd put things together with a template
and, you know, if I wanted to show a whole schema to an
audience, I would have a piece of it on one and a piece
on the other and I would lay the pieces on top,
and at the end they'd see the whole picture of what
I was trying to show.
Well, that's what happened in terms
of the reincarnation research.
One case, I'd look at it and it had these areas of data.
Another one had these areas of data.
Little bit different, different terminology,
different perspectives.
But looking at it from a generic kind of classification
perspective, which is what psychologists do when they
try to develop personality tests and IQ tests and all that.
We try to look for patterns in the underlying
structures of thing.
And to me, and to my eyes, it was a very solid structure.
So I said, okay, what are the components of it?
At that time I didn't know.
And that's when this intuition came, I said, we've
got a mental part, the way of thinking, analysis, critical
thinking, are intuitive.
You see, we fall somewhere on that spectrum, everybody does.
But the past life that I'm looking at in this case, and the
present life has the same pattern.
Let's talk about that.
Let's get into a couple of specifics that have either
previously been recorded in books by other people
that you consider to be, as you say, among the most robust
cases, so you can give examples side-by-side of exactly
what you're talking about.
I mean, you can go with the confederate soldier,
or whoever you wish.
Well, that's a good case because this book and
Jeff Keene is the author of the book, and it's his own case.
He discovered through an emotional experience on one of
the battlefields of the Civil War, where he had an emotional
experience that he could not explain in any other way.
And was told by a friend that might have some past life
implications for you.
He sort of tried to see what that meant and he didn't really
have a lead until he saw a picture of a confederate soldier
and he held it up and he said, "I recognize that guy.
"I shave his face in the morning."
So, you know, this really got his attention.
Did he have a lot of physical characteristics?
The physical characteristics, and I have done, as I
mentioned in the book, I have taken his -
he wrote a book, he developed all this raw data, stories
anecdotes about how he has similar experiences,
similar attitudes and so on to this confederate soldier
who became a general in the confederate army.
But Jeff was looking at it just as an ordinary human being
saying I see all these similarities.
And he has them all mixed up in the book and so forth.
Well, I took his book.
That's when I did, he's one of the templates.
His areas of evidence filled in this part of the picture.
So you had the physical features that were very similar,
not just the facial geometry, which some people have looked
at in their research and I was looking at.
But also the body type, and the hair and ear and hand
proportions and those kinds of features that have been
shown by metric science to be the more genetically stable
parts of our physical features.
He not only had that, but then I started asking, okay
if there's a way of thinking here, let me read some of the
material that Jeff wrote in his book about the way he thinks
and the way John Gordon, the confederate guy thought
because I had quotes from history books of his writing
and his comments and so forth.
And because of the work I'd done in this Harvard research,
looking at speeches of politicians, and the articles of
ministers, and cases of lawyers and so on,
to infer what their
Mindset, right.
Approach to thinking was and the mindsets were.
I used the same approach to look at Jeff Keene, the current
living retired fireman in Connecticut with a long dead
confederate general.
The patterns were the same.
I said, let me look at the emotions.
Are these guys, do they have the same sort of emotional
reaction to similar circumstances?
Read some of Gordon's letters, how he talked about battle,
losing his comrades in the war, I mean, the trauma
and how he was balancing his personal feelings with
his sense of duty as the leader.
Look at some of the things that Jeff Keene had written
about his men being in a burning house,
subjecting themselves to danger.
He as the assistant chief having to stand back
and direct this.
These are his buddies in there in danger.
The same patterns were coming through.
Then I looked and said, well how about
the careers of these guys.
Obviously they were both, you know, in structured
hierarchical organizations, the military, the army,
the airforce, the firefighting department.
These were psychologically the kind of structures
that a particular kind of personality needs.
Another hit. Another match.
And it goes on in that particular case.
Not only when they finish their duties as authoritarian,
structure oriented, military careers,
they have a sense of service to the citizenry.
Get involved in education and public service.
Gordon in politics. Jeff Keene in education and so on.
Well, that's only one case.
Take Peter Teekamp.
Yes.
And Paul Gauguin.
Yes, that was interesting.
Now, Peter's case started on his own with people
just saying to him, you remind me of Paul Gauguin,
and he just brushed it off for a decade or so.
Three different significant people said that to him.
And then as he got into his research, looking more carefully
and closely at Paul Gauguin's paintings, he discovered
something in those paintings that other
art critics had never noticed.
Tiny faces hidden away in small parts of the paintings.
Well, now that discovery was significant enough in itself,
but Peter Teekamp did the same thing.
And had been doing it all of his life,
and that got his attention.
Why am I doing that?
As an artist.
Yes.
And I find that this guy
Was doing the same thing.
Doing the same thing 150 years ago.
Right.
And so then he began to explore and study more
and begin to feel that maybe there was a combination
of factors that might suggest he ought to look at it
more seriously.
So he met Michele Moshay who now, it turns out,
as other researchers have evaluated it, as Peter and Michele
have evaluated it, and as now I have finally done with
my multi-factored package.
They are, if anybody today is reincarnated as
Mette Gauguin and Paul Gauguin,
it's Michele Moshay and Peter Teekamp.
Now, you notice I said that carefully.
I'm not declaring one hundred percent certitude that
this is the reincarnation of the same soul that was in
Paul and the same soul that was evolved in Mette Gauguin.
But I'm suggesting that when you have that kind of body of
correspondences, it's hard to say.
It is sort of foolish to say, oh, that's just by accident.
You happen to find two people that resemble each other
this closely by chance.
So, doing that with a number of cases.
So I took some of those cases that had already been
published and I wanted to take it through the next step.
And these people like Jeff Keene and Peter and Mette and
a few other people who were willing to let their
books be used, let their material be used
and who were willing to go the next step to engage
themselves in the psychological process of evaluation.
So we had interviews. I had their material.
They let me have their writings.
They let me have any of their private information.
They went through a rigorous psychological interview
where I was looking for the clues of these various profiles.
And I tried out my evaluations on them and in most
instances, this is not boasting about my perspicacity
as a analyst, but in most cases they agreed.
"Paul, yeah, that fits me."
And I say, do you know what also fits, Paul Gauguin.
It also fits Mette Gad Gauguin.
So they say, "Wow."
What's happened, and the feedback I've gotten from
people, after going through this process of, not only,
thinking of themselves in terms of a name, in terms of
maybe being an artist and he was an artist, or in terms
of some spiritual concept of that soul is now in me.
They used terms like, and I have a wonderful email
from Michele on this saying, "I've never felt so complete,
"and whole, and confident of this case that we've been
"working on for the last fifteen plus years.
"This has changed my life."
In what ways are you finding that it
changes people's lives?
To have this kind of moving closer to certainty?
Moving closer to certainty in all of these areas,
I mean, they take it seriously.
They now look at their own decisions, they look at their
own life choices as they're making them now, in the
context of an evolving personality that they understand
some of their roots in the past, and they understand
some of the implications of that legacy in the early
years of this life.
And Peter is a wonderful example because he's had his own
suicidal episodes, just as Paul Gauguin did.
He's had his own family breakup, his own alienation
from his children, as Paul Gauguin did.
But now that he is aware of this legacy and its impact
and his ability to make some choices, he is changing.
He is now reintegrating his children into his life.
He is now thinking in terms of a responsibility, if this is
what that life in the past contributed to the way I started
this life, I'm thinking of what my legacy is going to be
in the person who is animated by this same psychoplasm
or soul genome that has animated me.
And I have some choices to make and I can make
different decisions, I can go in different directions.
And it is, when you go through this process of owning
at a visceral level this legacy,
you are a very weird, dead soul if you can't have
a sense of some self-responsibility for the next step.
And I say that because there are no weird, dead soul.
I mean, we are conscious beings,
consciously evolving beings, and once you own that,
you can't help but see the implications.
This is what karma, see when I was first writing the book
in the first direction before I changed directions,
I was talking about karma and more spiritual,
oriental terms, you know, this notion of well,
it's something that the universe imposes on us and
sort of sets it up and we work it out and there's nothing
much we can do about it.
We either work it off or we don't.
Well, I'm sorry to say to the people who feel that way that
that's not the way the evidence seems to suggest it works.
The evidence suggests it works, that you have a legacy
and it influences your behavior, as it came to you,
and it influences you in that direction until you make
conscious choices to change it.
That's the insight.
What's interesting to me is using this western scientific
quote model that I'm using, it has revealed the fragility,
the ethereality, the lack of force in power of these
more ethereal traditions because they'd been
comfort giving, you see.
They make us feel good because we don't have any
responsibility, you see.
It's sort of at this level that we don't have any
control over, but when you get to the nitty gritty
of looking at reincarnation as a real phenomenon
it effects not only the way I look, but the way I'm going
to make decisions about the people I'm going to be
in love with, partner with, marry, work with, fight against.
The choices that I make are going to be influenced by this
legacy and I have to make conscious decisions to overcome
that influence.
Then, you know, you can't escape the responsibility
for the original meaning of karma, which if you go back
to the earliest definitions of the word karma, it was a very
simple, natural tradition, the effects of one's actions.
That's as clear as it can be.
So Peter Teekamp says, yeah I've been behaving like a
blank, because I came with that legacy and I didn't
realize it was pushing me.
I gave into those inclinations that I was born with,
but boy now I see that I can change.
I can make a difference.
I don't want to live with that legacy anymore.
It's the kind of thing that a person has who goes through
an authentic therapeutic process of dealing with the
consequences of one's behavior.
Where this behavior could have been either in a
previous life or in the present life.
As you know the whole past life therapy movement
that's been very widespread in the last few decades
really grew out of Freud and his colleagues understandings
of the power of buried trauma in childhood
on a present life.
If the concept that I'm describing works in reincarnation,
which is this integral, singular corpus of a personality.
Then if there's trauma in a past life,
obviously, it comes forward.
And if it hasn't been dealt with in the past life,
it's going to have to be dealt with at some time
in a future lifetime.
And so sometimes it will burst out on its own and cause
difficulties for us that are extreme enough that we're
forced to take action, we're forced to undergo therapeutic
experiences, or self-healing experiences of some kind
or the other.
And if we don't do it this lifetime, it's going to be
part of our legacy that we pass on.
I think one of the interesting things about people now
volunteering to do past life regression and setting
themselves up to quote suffer this traumatic experience
of uncovering lifetimes that have
very negative consequences.
This is speeding up the process of conscious evolution.
In other words, the whole past life therapy movement
is becoming, or has become, and will become more effective
as people understand the greater
impact of what we're talking about.
This is like a whole generation of people consciously
volunteering to undergo some of the self-healing of
past behaviors with consequences that are effecting
society today.
It means it doesn't have to be pushed off
to future lifetimes.
That's ultimate self-responsibility.
It's ultimate self-responsibility.
And I wouldn't go so far as to say everybody ought to
get into the process and begin to explore their past lives
because some people aren't ready for it yet.
And if you do it too early, before the person has the
experience and either the support system to really
make the changes.
That's why I like the therapeutic processes that take
a considerable amount of time to work through because
then there's a time for an evolutionary process.
Integration of all of that.
Integration of all of these factors and support from
your therapist, from other people in the group that
you might be working with.
So I'm very disappointed when I hear friends talk about
Oh, I just went to this person and this person wiped away
my karmic debt and I don't have to worry about it anymore.
And I say, come see me in a month.
And in a month they are having the same problems
they had before.
So those are the extremes between an immediate fix.
That sort of thing, in terms of past life karmic healing
is no different than the supernatural religion that
says come and believe in the Lord Jesus, accept him
by his name and you will be saved for eternity.
In other words, it's a magical moment that somebody
else can do for you.
And I'm suggesting that reincarnation is not a
magical moment that somebody can do for you,
it's something that you are involved in as an individual
and you need to go through it in a very serious and
self-responsible manner.
And it has huge implications for, not only,
our own progressive soul or psychoplasm progression
individually, but collectively, and how we interact not
just with each other, but even the earth and all of the
bounty of resources that we've been trashing so badly.
Absolutely. Well, it effects everything we do.
Well, like the notion, what if we're the ones
that inherit the earth?
Yes. We now say, oh, our children and grandchildren
will inherit the earth.
Well, we are those children and grandchildren,
coming around again.
So if we don't take action to make some progress now,
we're going to be faced with the consequences.
That's karma.
In other words, not being willing to take action to resolve
the negative consequences, the negative influence of
your current behaviors on the future is loading that
down the road of other generations.
That same burden's going to land
right on your shoulders again.
On your shoulders again.
So, you know, I don't want to make too much
out of my work.
You don't want to preach.
I stopped preaching a long time ago.
And I don't want to make more out of it
because this is a pilot study.
It is an experiment, as you know.
It's an ongoing experiment.
We have a website where people can come on and read
about the process and look at some cases in progress.
They can look at some cases that we've already written
up and see if it triggers anything in their own lives
in their own experiences.
And this is called reincarnation experiment?
.org
Yeah.
So if anyone, if this is lighting your jets
and you feel like there's something that's been there
in the background, something in the operating system
that you can kind of feel but don't know what it is yet,
then maybe this is a really good place for people to plug
in and become part of this experiment.
Become part of the process.
What we're emphasizing, when I say we, I'm primarily
responsible for getting this together and a lot of people
have made contributions to the book in their own personal
cases and so forth, but I have to take responsibility
for the final product of the book because, you know,
I edited the final version and so on.
But what I and people who are buying into this sort of
approach, I think what we're inviting people to do is to
take this as an individual self-discovery project.
It doesn't matter that you don't know that you might
have a connection with a particular past lifetime,
that will come later on.
Because what you do is you begin to look at yourself
in a different way.
You begin to say how am I thinking about these issues
that I'm facing?
What approach am I bringing?
How do I normally react to stress and challenge?
What is my emotional stance?
If I haven't changed it much in this lifetime, that must
be the legacy I've brought forward,
which is pretty deeply rooted.
And if I'm going to make some changes, I've got to
do something that requires serious work and involvement.
Yes.
There's no magic bullet for this.
I mean, it's part of the evolution,
when we talk about the evolution and my dear friend
Barbara Marx Hubbard and I, she is way off out there
in the future looking at things at a general level.
And I'm here saying, we've got to look at conscious
evolution on a today level.
We're involved in its individuals and
we compliment each other.
So when we have these conversations, it's wonderful
because she's showing the potential that's out there
and I'm saying, yes.
And let's do our job today and do our homework
and do our self work today, so that future will evolve.
It won't evolve unless we begin to take this responsibility.
And that's why I left the supernatural religions and the
theology of western religions early on in my intellectual
and psychological development because it absolved
people of responsibility for who they really were.
Now, many theologians from that perspective will disagree.
They say, oh, no. We teach and preach responsibility,
social responsibility, and love thy neighbor and
all of these behavioral admonitions.
But those are only admonitions and the driving force
is not really to do those things, it's to fix your vision
on that projected afterlife, which you know if you believe
in that supernatural way of belief.
Whether you are an Islamic suicide bomber or you are
a Christian zealot, the same dynamic is at work
because you know that what you're doing is going to be
all right in the end because you have done it in the name
of your particular religious belief system.
What that does, even those who preach liberation theology
and social conscious Christianity and those kinds of
systems of thought, if they look a little more deeply,
they will realize that the underbelly of their
belief systems lies elsewhere.
And lies in salvation being at another level than ones
own actions and own behavior and self-responsibility.
And it's sort of ironic because when you read some of the
words that are attributed to Jesus, we're not quite sure
what he said, but some that are attributed to him
are exactly what I'm saying now.
You know, heaven is within you.
You change yourself, you take the responsibliity
and you're responsible.
Absolutely.
I'm not responsible.
The creator is not responsible.
It's in your hands.
But what's happened over the last 2000 years in Judeaism
and Christianity and Islam and Mormonism and a lot
of other new age cults that are very supernaturalistic
in their orientation because they place the power
at this divine, elevated level.
I think we got a good bit of good advice from other beings.
In one of my earlier books, as you might know
"Gods, Genes and Consciousness"
I talked about these advanced beings.
We do get good advice from other sources.
Too bad we don't follow it.
Well, it's too bad that we don't follow it because
what we do is we take their good advice, and I've been
in some groups, and I'm in some right now
who are receiving messages from various masters
and various advanced beings.
And what happens is they all generally say,
I'm giving you this information and
you've got to do something about it.
But what the human reaction is, oh, I am blessed
to have this information.
I'm getting the attention of this advanced being
and therefore I must be chosen.
Therefore I must be, by definition doing the right
thing the way I am, so I don't have to change.
(laughs)
You see what I mean?
Yes, I do.
And what people don't realize is that buying into that
notion that you are already somehow part of that special
group and therefore you are already chosen,
like the early Presbyterians said we are all,
in this church, the select.
We have been selected by God to be in this group.
So this group who's receiving channel material from
some AB name Mr. X or Ms. Y or they X, Y, Z, a group
of spirit guides because we have been chosen and
picked out by them, that means we're on the right track.
And that causes us not to question our own assumptions,
our own choices and saying what are we
doing in this picture?
What contribution are we making?
What role are we playing?
Unless you get to that level as an individual, going back
to Chris Argyris' learning theory at the graduate school
of education at Harvard.
Unless you face up to the fact that the assumptions that
you've been living with about the nature of reality
don't quite measure up, you're not going to change.
Sorry, I got on my sermon mode there.
It's very, no. Very true words.
And, again, people can join in this experiment
through the website.
Also the book, I like a lot of the visuals you have because
this really drives it home.
Some of the cases you were just talking about.
Right.
Looking at the biometrics of the face overlays
is quite interesting and that's a scientific case
for reincarnation.
Very important work that you're doing at this time.
Self-responsibility, I'm with you, that's where it's at.
So thank you so much for your time.
It's a pleasure. Thank you for listening.
If you've had some strong suspicious about your own
past or that of another, please contact Paul at
reincarnationexperiment.org.
This is an ongoing project that is approached in a
rigorous, scientific manner and may provide clues
as to some of your long unanswered questions.
For more on Paul's work, pick up a copy of his book,
"The Soul Genome."
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.
(music)